Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, today on the program we are delighted to have
one of the finest members of the United States Senate.
A person that I think is a real statesman.
Senator Mike Manrone of the State of Oklahoma, Mike, we might like to have you with us today.
Thank you, I see some probably here.
Senator Manrone came to the House of Representatives January 1939.
One time our colleague, who is his very dear friend, also Albert Gore, came and I came
a few months later.
Then we came over to the Senate later on.
We remember that he was the sponsor of the Fowlet Manrone Bill for the reorganization of
Congress and he is one of the most thoughtful members of the United States Senate.
Mike, you've been very active and I've said it to Gore and I joined with you to the extent
that we could and securing passage of an education bill in the United States Senate a few
days ago.
Will you tell us something about it?
Well, this I think was one of the greatest forward steps the Senate has taken.
The bill, as it came to us, provided roughly $500 million limited for school construction.
We, the amendment which you and Albert and some 31 other Democratic Senator sponsored,
added teacher salaries as well as construction and provided for a $20 per capita payment
to the States.
Thus in this amendment, the key fall for Gore and Manrone amendment and others, we raised
to a degree about $400 million, the annual cost of the bill, but we made it possible for
the States to direct whether they wanted this money for construction or for teacher salaries
or how they wish to divide it.
So it's a completely state-operated bill and one I think that properly evaluates the
great and pressing need for teacher salaries to obtain the very best possible teaching
and at the same time keep the good teachers still in the school as we're turn over as
tremendous in the teaching profession.
Well, Michael, I was, of course, led to do everything I could for his passage but you were
the principal sponsor and some of us just helped.
The Tennessee Education Association has passed a week at a meeting in which they were
asking if there would be some little raise by the State and the school teacher salary.
These funds could be used for the purpose of, as the State saw it for the purpose of
giving some raise in their discretion.
Anyway, the State wishes to divide it between construction and teacher salaries and our
investigation shows that the municipalities and local agencies of government are incapable
of raising the funds necessary to pay an adequate salary to keep the business.
It doesn't make a lot of sense just to have buildings unless you can have adequate and
well qualified teachers.
Certainly, too.
I'll go hand in hand.
How about the argument that this might lead to federal control of our school?
Well, the bill is carefully guarded against that providing that can't be any federal control.
The action of the Senate showed we didn't want any federal control, didn't put it on a
formula basis to what percent buildings and what percent teachers we trust the State
and the local subdivisions divide it properly.
The State has really given them some leeway and I don't think there's any danger of federal
control in it.
Well, this is one of the most far-right steps that we'll have been taken during this session
of Congress.
I mean, certainly hope the House of Representatives goes along.
I certainly give to you.
I want to ask you briefly one other thing.
Senator Monroni has chairman of the Committee that investigates and has to do with legislation
affecting aviation now.
Tell us a little bit about what the trouble is with so many planes falling and so many difficulties
and what you have recommended.
Well, actually, we're not in too bad a shape.
We only ran one-sixty-eighth of a percent per one hundred million miles, a passenger
miles, flown.
This is way below what we figured would be a good safety margin, but we need better ground
aids, approach lighting, better runway lighting, thirty-five percent of the accidents occur
in flight in this area.
We need...
You mean near the runway?
Yeah, the runway.
To guide the pilot in for the final touchdown and only three airports have modern two-way
lighting on their principal runway.
We need better air reporting, twenty percent of our air stations reporting weather are only
on part-time and we need very many other things as well.
Well, you've done a great job in trying to get adequate funds for airport construction
and safety control and you've gotten something but not enough.
Thank you.
Well, I wish we could go on.
We certainly appreciate you coming at McMonroni and being with us today and a lot of people
in Tennessee know you until this time next week.
That's all for now.